README.md, before:

# 🛡️ AWS-Security
This portfolio will be documentation of my AWS learning and using it as a textbook!
### 👤 Account creation

I started with securely provisioning and hardening my AWS account
- Enabled MFA on the AWS root account, Then created a non-root IAM administrator user for my day-to-day use
- Assigned IAM users to permission-scoped IAM groups representing employee job functions, enforcing the Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP)


## 🗂️Projects
---
## ☁️ AWS Web Application
This was a simple Web Application integrating AWS services - **Amplify, Lambda, IAM, API Gateway, and DynamoDB** - to build a functional web application from scratch.
Its use was to familize my self with common AWS services and allow my self to experiece building an application.

### 🧠**Thought process**
-----
**1.** Needs a way to create/host a webpage    
**2.** Needs a way to invoke a Python functionality  
**3.** Needs a way to run code  
**4.** Needs a place to store/return output  
**5.** Needs a way to handle permission  

### 💡 Solutions
-----
**1.** **Amplify** can be used to build and host websites. (For simplicity, a text editor was used to create an index.html page)  


**2.** **API Gateway** can be used to build a REST API to invoke the Lambda function.  


**3.** **Lambda** running Python code serverlessly upon some trigger. (In this case, it was user input)  


**4.** **DynamoDB** used a key-value ("NoSQL") database. (This wasn't needed because I could have returned the value, and there was no need to store; however, for learning purposes I added it in)  


**5.** **IAM** is needed to set permissions on the execution role for Lambda



## 🗺️ Architecture Diagram
![image alt](https://github.com/CLARKYBOI/AWS-Security/blob/09aaeecd4bd1b2891cc977be899462ce9b9f1c42/Untitled%20Diagram.drawio.png)
----
## ⚛️ React App

This project is a React-based web application deployed on AWS using AWS Amplify. The frontend was clone from an existing repositiory and customized locally, including the creation fo account and sign-in pages. Backend resources are developed and tested using AWS Amplify Sandbox, allowing backend changes to be applied to a sandbox environment during development

### 🎯 Purpose
- The purpose of this project was to learn frontend deployment workflows using AWS **Amplify Hosting**
- Experiment with backend development using **Amplify Sandbox** 
- Understand the separation between frontend deployments and backend infrastructure changes
## 🗺️ React Diagram
![image alt](https://github.com/CLARKYBOI/AWS-Security/blob/1719739d43fa4f2db9ee385952899d5824b44bab/React%20%20app.drawio.png)
---
## 🗺️ Load Balancer Diagram
![image alt](https://github.com/CLARKYBOI/AWS-Security/blob/056d66938456290caea978ed59ed07db5f67d609/Loadbalancer.drawio.png)

## Quick Documentation / Note
## **Please Disregard below**

CLI command to change username - **aws iam update-user --user-name NAME --new-user-name NEWNAME**
  - User will stay in group but permissions will not transfer and will have to be reassigned to the new name
### Elastic Beanstalk
**Service Role** - IAM role that EB assumes to interact with other AWS services
  - Create EC2 instances, load balancers, Auto Scaling groups

**EC2 Instance Profile** - IAM role attached to the EC2 instance 
  - Giving permissions for applications on those instances to interact with other AWS services
      - Allowing to upload logs to S3, write to an RDS DB and Cloudwatch

### AWS Lambda 
  - Code runs on a server that is not needed to be managed and runs in response to some event

### S3 
 - Object storage storing data within buckets identified by a unique key and supported by metadata

Commit message:

Add Load Balancer section to README
Added section on Load Balancer implementation and included diagram.

README.md, after:

# 🛡️ AWS-Security
This portfolio will be documentation of my AWS learning and using it as a textbook!
### 👤 Account creation

I started with securely provisioning and hardening my AWS account
- Enabled MFA on the AWS root account, Then created a non-root IAM administrator user for my day-to-day use
- Assigned IAM users to permission-scoped IAM groups representing employee job functions, enforcing the Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP)


## 🗂️Projects
---
## ☁️ AWS Web Application
This was a simple Web Application integrating AWS services - **Amplify, Lambda, IAM, API Gateway, and DynamoDB** - to build a functional web application from scratch.
Its use was to familize my self with common AWS services and allow my self to experiece building an application.

### 🧠**Thought process**
-----
**1.** Needs a way to create/host a webpage    
**2.** Needs a way to invoke a Python functionality  
**3.** Needs a way to run code  
**4.** Needs a place to store/return output  
**5.** Needs a way to handle permission  

### 💡 Solutions
-----
**1.** **Amplify** can be used to build and host websites. (For simplicity, a text editor was used to create an index.html page)  


**2.** **API Gateway** can be used to build a REST API to invoke the Lambda function.  


**3.** **Lambda** running Python code serverlessly upon some trigger. (In this case, it was user input)  


**4.** **DynamoDB** used a key-value ("NoSQL") database. (This wasn't needed because I could have returned the value, and there was no need to store; however, for learning purposes I added it in)  


**5.** **IAM** is needed to set permissions on the execution role for Lambda



## 🗺️ Architecture Diagram
![image alt](https://github.com/CLARKYBOI/AWS-Security/blob/09aaeecd4bd1b2891cc977be899462ce9b9f1c42/Untitled%20Diagram.drawio.png)
----
## ⚛️ React App

This project is a React-based web application deployed on AWS using AWS Amplify. The frontend was clone from an existing repositiory and customized locally, including the creation fo account and sign-in pages. Backend resources are developed and tested using AWS Amplify Sandbox, allowing backend changes to be applied to a sandbox environment during development

### 🎯 Purpose
- The purpose of this project was to learn frontend deployment workflows using AWS **Amplify Hosting**
- Experiment with backend development using **Amplify Sandbox** 
- Understand the separation between frontend deployments and backend infrastructure changes
## 🗺️ React Diagram
![image alt](https://github.com/CLARKYBOI/AWS-Security/blob/1719739d43fa4f2db9ee385952899d5824b44bab/React%20%20app.drawio.png)
---
## Load Balancer

This mini-project was to implement a load balancer between EC2 instances, then using CloudWatch and CloudTrail monitoring system health and performance metrics.
## 🗺️ Load Balancer Diagram
![image alt](https://github.com/CLARKYBOI/AWS-Security/blob/056d66938456290caea978ed59ed07db5f67d609/Loadbalancer.drawio.png)

## Quick Documentation / Note
## **Please Disregard below**

CLI command to change username - **aws iam update-user --user-name NAME --new-user-name NEWNAME**
  - User will stay in group but permissions will not transfer and will have to be reassigned to the new name
### Elastic Beanstalk
**Service Role** - IAM role that EB assumes to interact with other AWS services
  - Create EC2 instances, load balancers, Auto Scaling groups

**EC2 Instance Profile** - IAM role attached to the EC2 instance 
  - Giving permissions for applications on those instances to interact with other AWS services
      - Allowing to upload logs to S3, write to an RDS DB and Cloudwatch

### AWS Lambda 
  - Code runs on a server that is not needed to be managed and runs in response to some event

### S3 
 - Object storage storing data within buckets identified by a unique key and supported by metadata
